Replace FORWARD parameter with Range Filter-based pausing (#1825)
moq-wg/moq-transport: draft-ietf-moq-transport.md

Publishers MAY start sending Objects on PUBLISH-initiated subscriptions before
receiving a PUBLISH_OK response to reduce latency.  Doing so can consume
unnecessary resources in cases where the Subscriber rejects the subscription

> with REQUEST_ERROR or pauses the subscription in PUBLISH_OK. It can also result in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with REQUEST_ERROR or pauses the subscription in REQUEST_UPDATE. It can also result in
```

The Track Property filter parameter MAY appear multiple times in a
SUBSCRIBE_TRACKS message or REQUEST_UPDATE for it.
All other filter parameters MAY appear multiple times in a FETCH, SUBSCRIBE,

> PUBLISH, SUBSCRIBE_TRACKS, PUBLISH_OK, or REQUEST_UPDATE (on a subscription,

Reviewer 2: A little odd to allow all filter types in publish. The purpose of forward there is informative, or maybe this dovetails with Ian's proposal.

Reviewer: Yes, we'll talk about this today, see #1803

to further restrict which tracks and objects pass all filter criteria.
This includes all Range Filters {{range-filters}} and Location
Filters {{location-filters}}, which can be evaluated in any order.
The publisher MUST forward only objects that pass all filters.

~~~
Pass = Location Filters AND Range Filters
~~~

> ### Pausing Subscriptions {#pausing-subscriptions}

Reviewer: I like the addition of this section, since there are already multiple ways to pause a Subscription.

Does it make sense to say "A subscription can be paused by doing X, or by any other filter that filters out all Objects."

> A subscription is paused by including a Range Filter with an empty range set.

Reviewer 3: This creates a dependency on MAX_FILTER_RANGES being nonzero, right? MAX_FILTER_RANGES defaults to zero, so by default, someone wouldn't be able to pause a subscription.

Reviewer: You could use a Location Filter instead, which is what I'd recommend since MAX_FILTER_RANGES can be zero.

For example, an OBJECTID_FILTER (Parameter Type 0x26) containing only a SetID
and no ranges matches no Object IDs, causing all Objects to be blocked. Any
Range Filter type (0x25-0x27) can be used for this purpose; the result is the
same since an empty range set passes nothing.

A paused subscription does not deliver any Objects, but control messages such

> as PUBLISH_DONE ({{message-publish-done}}) are still sent.

Reviewer 2: This is redundant with the sentence in subscriptions section, do we need both?

> To pause a subscription, the endpoint includes a Range Filter with an empty

Reviewer 3: I think things are actually more complicated than this with multiple filters, because filters within one SetID are ANDed, but different SetIDs are ORed. You may want to clarify that the filter should be present in every SetID in use.

> range set in SUBSCRIBE, PUBLISH, PUBLISH_OK, SUBSCRIBE_TRACKS, or

Reviewer 2: SUBSCRIBE_TRACKS doesn't pause a subscription, as described below

the Object header, and does not evaluate Track Properties in PUBLISH
messages.

### Combining Filters {#combining-filters}

All filter types are combined using logical "AND" operations
to further restrict which tracks and objects pass all filter criteria.
This includes all Range Filters {{range-filters}} and Location
Filters {{location-filters}}, which can be evaluated in any order.
The publisher MUST forward only objects that pass all filters.

~~~
Pass = Location Filters AND Range Filters
~~~

### Pausing Subscriptions {#pausing-subscriptions}

> A subscription is paused by any filter that matches no Objects. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A subscription is paused if it contains a filter that cannot match any Objects. The
```

recommended pausing filter is a Location Filter with StartGroup=0,
StartObject=1, EndGroupDelta=0, EndObject=0, representing the empty range
[{0,1}, {0,0}]. When multiple filter SetIDs are in use (see
{{combining-filters}}), the pausing filter MUST be present in every SetID;

> otherwise Objects can pass via an unpaused SetID.

Reviewer: Maybe we should advise that you shouldn't use Range Filters to pause a Track?

Reviewer 4: I agree. I would only describe pause in terms of (mandatory) location filters not (optional) range filters. It is impossible in general to determine if a range filter guarantees no matching objects, so the intent to pause is impossible for the publisher to discern. Also consider the mess it causes for upstream aggregation if each downstream subscriber tried to pause using different random range filters. Pause should be a well specified, deterministic mechanism that can be aggregated upstream unambiguously.

An endpoint pauses a subscription by including a pausing Location Filter in

> SUBSCRIBE, PUBLISH, PUBLISH_OK, or REQUEST_UPDATE, and resumes it by sending a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SUBSCRIBE, PUBLISH, or REQUEST_UPDATE, and resumes it by sending a
```

PUBLISH, or REQUEST_UPDATE_OK
2. The largest Location of an Object received on an upstream subscription

### NEW GROUP REQUEST Parameter {#new-group-request}

The NEW_GROUP_REQUEST parameter (Parameter Type 0x32) is a varint. It MAY appear

> in PUBLISH_OK, SUBSCRIBE or REQUEST_UPDATE for a subscription.  It represents the largest Group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in SUBSCRIBE or REQUEST_UPDATE for a subscription.  It represents the largest Group
```

ID in the Track known by the subscriber, plus 1. A value of 0 indicates that the
subscriber has no Group information for the Track.  A subscriber MUST NOT send

> this parameter in PUBLISH_OK or REQUEST_UPDATE if the Track did not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this parameter in REQUEST_UPDATE if the Track did not
```

publisher initiated streams associated with that subscription using a
STOP_SENDING frame.

A publisher that pauses the subscription (see {{pausing-subscriptions}})
indicates that it will not transmit any objects until the subscriber resumes it

> via PUBLISH_OK or REQUEST_UPDATE. If the subscription is not paused, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
via REQUEST_UPDATE. If the subscription is not paused, the
```

Any Parameter that can be specified on a Subscription (ie: in SUBSCRIBE) is valid
in SUBSCRIBE_TRACKS, unless otherwise specified. These parameters are used by the
publisher as the initial Subscription parameters when a PUBLISH is sent as a result of
SUBSCRIBE_TRACKS. These Parameters are explicitly communicated, with the

> exception of a pausing Location Filter and GROUP_ORDER as described below.

Reviewer: I think the old text was wrong?

```suggestion
SUBSCRIBE_TRACKS. These Parameters are explicitly communicated in PUBLISH.
```

DYNAMIC_GROUPS (Property Type 0x30) is a Track Property.
The allowed values are 0 or 1. When the value is 1, it indicates
that the subscriber can request the Original Publisher to start a new Group

> by including the NEW_GROUP_REQUEST parameter in PUBLISH_OK or REQUEST_UPDATE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by including the NEW_GROUP_REQUEST parameter in REQUEST_UPDATE
```

| 0x08 | EXPIRES | {{expires}} |
| 0x09 | LARGEST_OBJECT | {{largest-param}} |
| 0x0A | FILL_TIMEOUT | {{fill-timeout}} |

> | 0x10 | Reserved | N/A |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 0x10 | Reserved (Formerly FORWARD) | N/A |
```
